Let's talk about a different
evaluation function.
Let's use number of #my_moves minus
the number of my #opponents_moves.
I really like variants of this
function for simple isolation games.
The point of isolation is to
illuminate the opponent's moves.
#my_moves- #opponents_moves causes
the computer player to seek moves with
the most options while trying to get
in the way of the opponent's moves.
We can even weight the components of
the formula to try to encourage more
aggressive or less aggressive game play.
For example, #my_moves- 2 *
#opponents_moves will cause
our computer player to
chase after the opponent.
>> That makes the examples you gave for
the horizon effect
much more interesting.
>> How so?
>> Well, the winning move now has
the highest evaluation function result.
Here is the winning move.
And the evaluation
function now returns a 1.
For the move immediately to the right,
results in a -2.
The move to the far right returns a -1.
And the far diagonal move returns a 0.
>> Maybe that is the answer,
maybe keeping your options close, but
your enemies closer is the right
strategy in isolation.
>> I'm not so sure.
I think the only way to really know is
to try lots of variants of evaluation
functions and
see which ones are the best.
>> You're right, but in addition to
minimax and iterative deepening,
there's one more trick we have to teach
that can really affect the efficiency of
game tree search before we spend
time doing the evaluation function.